PROVISIONAL PATENT APPLICATION

Cross-Platform Operating System Integration and Event Pipeline Engine

Invention Title: Cross-Platform Operating System Integration and Event Pipeline Engine with Autonomous Synchronization and Zero-Trust Security Framework

Field of the Invention: Computer systems architecture, distributed computing, operating system integration, real-time data synchronization, and cybersecurity frameworks.

Background of the Invention: Current cross-platform integration solutions lack comprehensive offline synchronization capabilities, fail to provide zero-trust security enforcement across heterogeneous systems, and cannot maintain operational continuity in disconnected environments such as hospitals during network outages, satellite communications with intermittent connectivity, or disaster recovery scenarios.


---

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION

1. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE OVERVIEW

The invention comprises a modular event pipeline engine with six primary subsystems operating through a unified control plane:

1. Authentication Subsystem (AUTH-SUB)


2. Event Bus Subsystem (EB-SUB)


3. Security Core Subsystem (SEC-SUB)


4. Session Control Subsystem (SC-SUB)


5. API Orchestration Subsystem (AO-SUB)


6. Synchronization Protocol Subsystem (SP-SUB)



2. AUTHENTICATION SUBSYSTEM (AUTH-SUB)

Technical Implementation:

The AUTH-SUB implements a hierarchical credential validation framework with cryptographic proof chains and biometric integration.

Core Components:

AUTH-MANAGER {  
    CredentialValidator {  
        - X.509 certificate chain validation  
        - FIDO2/WebAuthn biometric integration  
        - Hardware Security Module (HSM) key derivation  
        - Multi-factor authentication orchestration  
    }  
      
    TokenEngine {  
        - JWT token generation with rotating keys  
        - Refresh token management with exponential backoff  
        - Cross-platform token translation layer  
        - Offline token validation cache  
    }  
      
    BiometricProcessor {  
        - Platform-specific biometric API abstraction  
        - Encrypted biometric template storage  
        - Liveness detection integration  
        - Privacy-preserving matching algorithms  
    }  
}

Novel Authentication Flow:

1. Initial Authentication: Device presents multi-factor credentials including biometric proof


2. Cryptographic Binding: Generate device-specific keypair with HSM-derived root key


3. Cross-Platform Translation: Convert platform-specific authentication tokens to universal format


4. Offline Credential Caching: Store encrypted authentication proofs for disconnected operation


5. Zero-Knowledge Proof Generation: Create cryptographic proofs of authorization without exposing credentials



Hardware Security Module Integration:

PKCS#11 interface for HSM communication

Key derivation using device hardware fingerprints

Secure enclave utilization on supported platforms

Fallback software-based key storage with hardware-bound encryption


3. EVENT BUS SUBSYSTEM (EB-SUB)

Technical Implementation:

The EB-SUB implements a distributed message broker with guaranteed delivery semantics and cross-platform compatibility.

Core Architecture:

EVENT-BUS {  
    MessageBroker {  
        - Publisher-subscriber pattern with durable queues  
        - Message persistence layer with compression  
        - Cross-platform message serialization (Protocol Buffers)  
        - Priority-based message routing  
    }  
      
    ReplayBuffer {  
        - Circular buffer implementation with configurable size  
        - Merkle tree integrity verification  
        - Compressed storage using LZ4 algorithm  
        - Temporal indexing for efficient retrieval  
    }  
      
    DeliveryGuarantee {  
        - At-least-once delivery semantics  
        - Idempotency key generation and verification  
        - Exponential backoff retry mechanism  
        - Dead letter queue for failed deliveries  
    }  
}

Event Processing Pipeline:

1. Message Ingestion: Events received through platform-specific APIs


2. Schema Validation: Enforce message schema using JSON Schema validation


3. Priority Classification: Assign delivery priority based on message type and source


4. Persistence: Store messages in compressed format with integrity checksums


5. Routing: Distribute messages to subscribers based on topic subscriptions


6. Acknowledgment Tracking: Maintain delivery confirmation state



Cross-Platform Event Translation:

Windows: WMI event subscription and COM interface integration

Linux: D-Bus message bus integration and inotify file system monitoring

Android: Intent broadcast receiver and system service integration

iOS: NSNotificationCenter and Core Foundation integration


4. SECURITY CORE SUBSYSTEM (SEC-SUB)

Technical Implementation:

The SEC-SUB enforces zero-trust security principles with continuous verification and threat detection.

Zero-Trust Framework:

SECURITY-CORE {  
    TrustEngine {  
        - Continuous device posture assessment  
        - Behavioral analysis with machine learning  
        - Risk scoring based on access patterns  
        - Dynamic policy enforcement  
    }  
      
    CryptographicEngine {  
        - End-to-end encryption using AES-256-GCM  
        - Perfect forward secrecy with ECDHE key exchange  
        - Message authentication using HMAC-SHA256  
        - Key rotation with configurable intervals  
    }  
      
    AccessController {  
        - Role-based access control (RBAC) with attribute extensions  
        - Dynamic permission evaluation  
        - Resource isolation and sandboxing  
        - Audit trail generation with tamper-evident logging  
    }  
}

Security Enforcement Mechanisms:

1. Device Attestation: Verify device integrity using hardware attestation


2. Continuous Monitoring: Real-time behavioral analysis for anomaly detection


3. Dynamic Authorization: Evaluate access requests against current risk profile


4. Encryption Layer: All data encrypted in transit and at rest


5. Audit Generation: Comprehensive logging of all security events



SIEM/SOAR Integration:

CEF (Common Event Format) log generation

STIX/TAXII threat intelligence consumption

REST API for external security tool integration

Real-time alert generation with configurable thresholds


5. SESSION CONTROL SUBSYSTEM (SC-SUB)

Technical Implementation:

The SC-SUB manages distributed sessions across multiple platforms with state consistency guarantees.

Session Management Architecture:

SESSION-CONTROLLER {  
    SessionManager {  
        - Distributed session state with vector clocks  
        - Cross-platform session migration  
        - Conflict resolution using operational transformation  
        - Session persistence with crash recovery  
    }  
      
    StateReplicator {  
        - Eventually consistent state synchronization  
        - Conflict-free replicated data types (CRDTs)  
        - Delta synchronization for bandwidth optimization  
        - Merkle tree state verification  
    }  
      
    MigrationEngine {  
        - Seamless session handoff between devices  
        - State serialization with platform abstraction  
        - Migration rollback capability  
        - Bandwidth-aware migration strategies  
    }  
}

Session Lifecycle Management:

1. Session Initiation: Create distributed session with unique identifier


2. State Tracking: Monitor session state changes across all participants


3. Conflict Detection: Identify concurrent modifications using vector clocks


4. Conflict Resolution: Apply operational transformation algorithms


5. Session Termination: Coordinated cleanup with state finalization



6. API ORCHESTRATION SUBSYSTEM (AO-SUB)

Technical Implementation:

The AO-SUB provides a unified API layer that abstracts platform-specific interfaces and manages API lifecycle.

API Orchestration Framework:

API-ORCHESTRATOR {  
    UnifiedInterface {  
        - GraphQL schema with platform-specific resolvers  
        - REST API gateway with rate limiting  
        - Platform adapter pattern implementation  
        - Request/response transformation pipeline  
    }  
      
    AdapterFramework {  
        - Plugin loader with dynamic module loading  
        - Interface abstraction layer  
        - Error handling and retry logic  
        - Performance monitoring and metrics collection  
    }  
      
    LifecycleManager {  
        - API versioning with backward compatibility  
        - Graceful degradation for unavailable platforms  
        - Health check monitoring  
        - Circuit breaker pattern for fault isolation  
    }  
}

Platform Adapter Specifications:

Windows Adapter: WinAPI, PowerShell, WMI integration

Linux Adapter: System calls, D-Bus, systemd integration

Android Adapter: Android SDK, NDK, system services

iOS Adapter: Core Foundation, Objective-C runtime, system frameworks


7. SYNCHRONIZATION PROTOCOL SUBSYSTEM (SP-SUB)

Technical Implementation:

The SP-SUB implements a novel synchronization protocol optimized for intermittent connectivity and offline operation.

Synchronization Architecture:

SYNC-PROTOCOL {  
    OfflineCore {  
        - Event queue with persistent storage  
        - Conflict-free replicated data types (CRDTs)  
        - Vector clock synchronization  
        - Merkle tree integrity verification  
    }  
      
    ConnectivityManager {  
        - Network state monitoring  
        - Adaptive synchronization strategies  
        - Bandwidth optimization algorithms  
        - Connection priority management  
    }  
      
    ConflictResolver {  
        - Last-writer-wins with timestamp ordering  
        - Operational transformation for concurrent edits  
        - Manual conflict resolution interface  
        - Automated merge strategies  
    }  
}

Synchronization Protocol Specification:

Phase 1: Connection Establishment

SYNC_HANDSHAKE {  
    1. Device authentication with mutual certificate verification  
    2. Capability negotiation (supported features, compression algorithms)  
    3. Vector clock exchange for temporal ordering  
    4. Merkle tree root exchange for data integrity verification  
}

Phase 2: Delta Synchronization

DELTA_SYNC {  
    1. Identify divergent data using Merkle tree comparison  
    2. Generate minimal delta sets using binary diff algorithms  
    3. Compress deltas using context-aware compression  
    4. Transfer deltas with integrity checksums  
    5. Apply deltas using operational transformation  
}

Phase 3: Conflict Resolution

CONFLICT_RESOLUTION {  
    1. Detect conflicts using vector clock comparison  
    2. Apply automated resolution rules where possible  
    3. Queue manual resolution tasks for complex conflicts  
    4. Generate audit trail for all resolution actions  
}

Offline Operation Guarantees:

Data Consistency: ACID properties maintained during offline operation

Event Ordering: Causal consistency using vector clocks

Integrity Verification: Cryptographic checksums for all data

Recovery Capability: Complete state recovery from any synchronization point


8. MODULAR PLUGIN ARCHITECTURE

Plugin Framework Specification:

PLUGIN-FRAMEWORK {  
    PluginInterface {  
        - Standardized plugin API with version negotiation  
        - Sandbox execution environment with resource limits  
        - Inter-plugin communication through message passing  
        - Hot-swappable plugin loading without system restart  
    }  
      
    ResourceManager {  
        - CPU and memory quota enforcement  
        - Plugin isolation using namespace containers  
        - Dependency resolution and management  
        - Plugin lifecycle management (load/unload/update)  
    }  
      
    SecurityFramework {  
        - Code signing verification for plugins  
        - Permission model with capability-based security  
        - Runtime behavior monitoring  
        - Vulnerability scanning integration  
    }  
}

Plugin Development Kit (PDK):

C/C++ SDK with platform abstraction layer

Python bindings for rapid development

JavaScript runtime for web-based plugins

Rust interface for systems programming


9. CLOUD AND FIELD SYNCHRONIZATION CORE

Hybrid Cloud-Edge Architecture:

SYNC-CORE {  
    CloudConnector {  
        - Multi-cloud provider abstraction (AWS, Azure, GCP)  
        - Edge computing integration with local processing  
        - CDN integration for global data distribution  
        - Bandwidth-adaptive synchronization protocols  
    }  
      
    FieldOperations {  
        - Offline-first data structures  
        - Satellite communication protocols (Iridium, Inmarsat)  
        - Mesh networking capability for peer-to-peer sync  
        - Emergency communication fallbacks  
    }  
      
    DataConsistency {  
        - Eventually consistent replication  
        - Conflict-free replicated data types (CRDTs)  
        - Vector clock synchronization  
        - Byzantine fault tolerance for unreliable networks  
    }  
}

10. DISASTER RECOVERY AND HIGH AVAILABILITY

Resilience Framework:

Hospital Mode: Isolated operation with local data persistence and emergency protocols

Satellite Mode: Bandwidth-optimized synchronization with store-and-forward capability

Disaster Zone Mode: Mesh networking with peer discovery and distributed consensus

Critical Infrastructure Mode: Hardened security with air-gapped operation capability


11. IMPLEMENTATION CLAIMS

Claim 1: A cross-platform operating system integration engine comprising a modular plugin architecture that dynamically loads platform-specific adapters for Windows, Linux, Android, and iOS systems, wherein each adapter implements a standardized interface for event capture, authentication, and system state management.

Claim 2: An event pipeline system with guaranteed delivery semantics that maintains data consistency across disconnected systems using conflict-free replicated data types (CRDTs) and vector clock synchronization, enabling offline operation with automatic conflict resolution upon reconnection.

Claim 3: A zero-trust security framework that continuously assesses device posture, enforces role-based access control with dynamic permission evaluation, and provides end-to-end encryption with perfect forward secrecy using elliptic curve Diffie-Hellman key exchange.

Claim 4: A synchronization protocol optimized for intermittent connectivity that uses Merkle tree verification for data integrity, implements delta synchronization with binary diff algorithms, and provides adaptive bandwidth utilization based on connection quality assessment.

Claim 5: A hybrid cloud-edge synchronization core that abstracts multiple cloud providers, integrates satellite communication protocols for remote operation, and implements mesh networking capability for peer-to-peer synchronization in disconnected environments.

Claim 6: A plugin framework with sandbox execution environment that enforces resource quotas, provides inter-plugin communication through secure message passing, and enables hot-swappable plugin loading without system restart while maintaining security isolation.

Claim 7: An audit trail and evidence collection system that generates tamper-evident logs compatible with SIEM and SOAR platforms, implements CEF log format generation, and provides cryptographic integrity verification for forensic analysis.

12. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

Message Protocol Format:

EVENT_MESSAGE {  
    header: {  
        version: uint8  
        message_type: uint16  
        timestamp: uint64 (nanoseconds since epoch)  
        source_platform: uint8  
        encryption_method: uint8  
        compression_algorithm: uint8  
    }  
      
    auth_context: {  
        session_id: uuid128  
        user_id: uuid128  
        device_fingerprint: hash256  
        permission_mask: uint64  
    }  
      
    payload: {  
        event_data: encrypted_bytes  
        checksum: hash256  
        signature: ecdsa_signature  
    }  
      
    routing: {  
        destination_platforms: uint8[]  
        priority_level: uint8  
        ttl: uint32  
        retry_count: uint8  
    }  
}

Synchronization State Machine:

SYNC_STATE_MACHINE {  
    DISCONNECTED -> CONNECTION_ATTEMPT -> AUTHENTICATING ->   
    CAPABILITY_NEGOTIATION -> VECTOR_CLOCK_SYNC ->   
    MERKLE_VERIFICATION -> DELTA_CALCULATION ->   
    CONFLICT_DETECTION -> CONFLICT_RESOLUTION ->   
    DATA_TRANSFER -> INTEGRITY_VERIFICATION -> SYNCHRONIZED  
      
    Error transitions to RETRY_BACKOFF state  
    Network loss transitions to DISCONNECTED state  
}

Plugin Interface Specification:

class IPlatformPlugin {  
public:  
    virtual PluginResult Initialize(const PluginConfig& config) = 0;  
    virtual PluginResult ProcessEvent(const Event& event) = 0;  
    virtual PluginResult GetCapabilities() = 0;  
    virtual PluginResult Shutdown() = 0;  
    virtual std::string GetPlatformIdentifier() = 0;  
    virtual ApiVersion GetRequiredApiVersion() = 0;  
};

Cryptographic Key Hierarchy:

ROOT_KEY (HSM-generated, device-bound)  
├── PLATFORM_KEY (per-OS encryption key)  
│   ├── SESSION_KEY (ephemeral, rotated hourly)  
│   └── BACKUP_KEY (long-term data recovery)  
├── AUTH_KEY (authentication signatures)  
└── SYNC_KEY (inter-device synchronization)

13. DISASTER RECOVERY PROTOCOLS

Hospital Emergency Mode:

Automatic failover to local operation when network connectivity lost

Critical patient data prioritization with emergency access protocols

Local mesh networking between medical devices

Compliance with HIPAA requirements for offline operation


Satellite Communication Optimization:

Store-and-forward message queuing with priority classification

Bandwidth-adaptive compression with quality-of-service guarantees

Automatic retry with exponential backoff for satellite link failures

Integration with Iridium Short Burst Data (SBD) protocol


Field Operations Support:

Peer-to-peer discovery using mDNS and Bluetooth Low Energy

Distributed consensus for decentralized operation

Geographic data partitioning for location-aware synchronization

Emergency broadcast capability for critical alerts


14. PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

Latency Requirements:

Local event processing: < 1ms

Cross-platform event delivery: < 100ms (connected)

Authentication verification: < 50ms

Synchronization initiation: < 500ms


Throughput Specifications:

Event processing: 10,000 events/second per platform

Concurrent sessions: 1,000 active sessions per instance

Data synchronization: 100MB/minute over 1Mbps connection

Plugin execution: 100 concurrent plugins per system


Resource Utilization:

Memory footprint: < 256MB base system

CPU usage: < 5% idle, < 25% under load

Storage overhead: < 10% of synchronized data size

Network bandwidth: Adaptive 1KB-100MB based on connection


15. INTEGRATION EXAMPLES

Healthcare Integration:

Electronic Health Record (EHR) system synchronization

Medical device data collection and aggregation

Patient monitoring with real-time alerts

Compliance reporting with audit trail generation


Emergency Services Integration:

First responder communication in disaster zones

Incident command system data sharing

Resource allocation and tracking

Multi-agency coordination with security boundaries


Industrial IoT Integration:

Manufacturing equipment monitoring and control

Supply chain visibility with real-time tracking

Predictive maintenance data collection

Quality assurance with automated reporting



---

Prior Art Differentiation: Unlike existing solutions such as Microsoft System Center, IBM Tivoli, or Apache Kafka, this invention provides comprehensive offline operation capability, zero-trust security enforcement across heterogeneous platforms, and automatic conflict resolution for disconnected systems. The novel combination of CRDT-based synchronization, HSM integration, and adaptive connectivity management represents a significant advancement over current state-of-the-art distributed systems.

Commercial Applications: Enterprise system integration, healthcare information systems, emergency response networks, industrial IoT platforms, military communications systems, satellite-based operations, and any scenario requiring reliable cross-platform data synchronization with security guarantees in challenging network environments.

